docs: provide docs content for template (#843)
asyncapi/generator: docs/template.md

weight: 40
---

> # What's a Template?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Introduction
```

Reviewer: asyncapi.com/docs/tools/generator#template

asyncapi.com/docs/tools/generator#minimum-template-requirements

A Template is a project that specifies what exactly you get as an output of the generation process using AsyncAPI Generator and the [AsyncAPI file](asyncapi-file.md). It is just a set of files where you describe what should be the result of the generation depending on the contents of the AsyncAPI file. 

Some examples of these outputs can be things such as:

- Code
- Documentation
- Markdown diagrams
- Python/Java applications

A template is an independent NodeJS project that’s not related to the `generator` repository. AsyncAPI templates are managed, released, and published separately. You can also create your own templates and manage them on your own.

> The generator uses the official NPM library for installing NodeJS dependencies called [Arborist](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@npmcli/arborist). This means templates do not have to be published to package managers to use them, just make sure they have `package.json`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The generator uses the official NPM library for installing NodeJS dependencies called [Arborist](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@npmcli/arborist). This means templates do not have to be published to package managers to use them.
```

Reviewer 2: I suggest this as this document should be focused on end user. So end user do not have to make sure template has `package.json` unless they start to write one (for that there is the other document)

so we only need to make sure they are aware they can install templates from different locations

Arborist helps the generator fetch the source code of the template and use that for the generation process. You can store template projects on a local drive during the development process, or just as a git repository. You can do anything that is already possible with `npm install`.

> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer 2: remove this empty spaces please

```suggestion
```

weight: 40
---

# Introduction

> A Template is a project that specifies what exactly you get as an output of the generation process using AsyncAPI Generator and the [AsyncAPI file](asyncapi-file.md). It is just a set of files where you describe what should be the result of the generation depending on the contents of the AsyncAPI file. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A template is a project that specifies the generation process output by using the AsyncAPI Generator and an [AsyncAPI file](asyncapi-file.md). These files describe the generation results depending on the AsyncAPI file's content. 
```

> Some examples of these outputs can be things such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some examples outputs are:
```

- Code
- Documentation
- Markdown diagrams
- Python/Java applications

> A template is an independent NodeJS project that’s not related to the `generator` repository. AsyncAPI templates are managed, released, and published separately. You can also create your own templates and manage them on your own.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A template is an independent NodeJS project that’s not related to the `Generator` repository. AsyncAPI templates are managed, released, and published separately. You can also create your own templates and manage them on your own.
```

> The generator uses the official NPM library for installing NodeJS dependencies called [Arborist](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@npmcli/arborist). This means templates do not have to be published to package managers to use them.
> Arborist helps the generator fetch the source code of the template and use that for the generation process. You can store template projects on a local drive during the development process, or just as a git repository. You can do anything that is already possible with `npm install`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The generator uses the official NPM library for installing NodeJS dependencies called [Arborist](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@npmcli/arborist). (This means templates do not have to be published to package managers to use them.) Arborist helps the Generator fetch the template's source code and use it for the generation process. 

You can store template projects on a local drive during the development process or as a git repository. 
```

The sentence about `npm` install didn't really clarify anything. I removed it because either it isn't necessary or it needs to be re-written to clarify what running that command accomplishes for the user. Lastly, it also wasn't clear why that sentence was in this section.

> ## List of official generator templates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Official generator `templates` list
```

> AsyncAPI has a list of readily available templates you can use to enhance your generation process. These templates are stored as github repositories on AsyncAPI organization’s official github profile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AsyncAPI has a list of available templates you can use to enhance your generation process. These templates are stored as GitHub repositories on the AsyncAPI organization’s official GitHub profile.
```

weight: 40
---

> ## Template

Reviewer 2: wdyt, we have this big diagram in https://github.com/asyncapi/generator/blob/master/docs/index.md and also simplified version for https://github.com/asyncapi/generator/blob/master/docs/asyncapi-document.md

I think it would make sense to have simplified `template` focused version here too. As AsyncAPI document and Template files are main building parts required by the generator?

[proposal]()https://mermaid-js.github.io/mermaid-live-editor/edit#pako:eNpVj70OwjAMhF8l8gwv0AGppcDCBGyEwRADEU0auakEKn133B-KyGTdfb6cG7iUhiCBG2O4q-1OeyUvPR7IhQIjqWXpIz3jaTCyZkOeGGPJ7aDkxx15Q6xW_mY9jdx6Cjip-Xyhsk6u6vPwzZShtvbMyK8xvEffCquXv2CwMqajMxgBGV31k9N-If_fnpqvbUEd3PvSEWbgiB1aI_c2nagh3smRhkRGg_zQoH0rXB2MJKyMlY6QXLGoaAZYx3IvzSCJXNMXyi3KUW6k2g9MUmuK
```
graph LR
    A[Template Context]
    B{Generator}
    D[Render Engine]
    F[Template] --> B
  subgraph Generator Library
    B --> | asyncapi | A
    B--> | params | A
    A --> D
    B --> | Template Files | D
  end
```

with shorter description like it is with `asyncapi document` doc

Author: totally makes sense👍

weight: 40
---

# Introduction

A template is a project that specifies the generation process output by using the AsyncAPI Generator and an [AsyncAPI file](asyncapi-file.md). These files describe the generation results depending on the AsyncAPI file's content.

Some examples outputs are:

- Code
- Documentation
- Markdown diagrams
- Python/Java applications

> A template is an independent NodeJS project that’s not related to the `Generator` repository. AsyncAPI templates are managed, released, and published separately. You can also create your own templates and manage them on your own.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A template is an independent NodeJS project unrelated to the `generator` repository. AsyncAPI templates are managed, released, and published separately. You can also create templates and manage them on your own.
```

> The generator uses the official NPM library for installing NodeJS dependencies called [Arborist](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@npmcli/arborist). (This means templates do not have to be published to package managers to use them.) Arborist helps the Generator fetch the template's source code and use it for the generation process. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The generator uses the official NPM library for installing NodeJS dependencies called [Arborist](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@npmcli/arborist). (This means templates do not have to be published to package managers to use them.) Arborist helps the generator fetch the template's source code and use it for the generation process. 
```

> You can store template projects on a local drive during the development process or as a git repository. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can store template projects on a local drive or as a `git` repository during the development process. 
```

> ## Official generator `templates` list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Generator `templates` list
```

Do we tend to share **unofficial** content? 😜

> AsyncAPI has a list of available templates you can use to enhance your generation process. These templates are stored as GitHub repositories on the AsyncAPI organization’s official GitHub profile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AsyncAPI has a list of available templates to enhance your generation process. Templates are stored as repositories on AsyncAPI's official GitHub profile.
```

`@asyncapi/java-template` | Generates Java JMS application | [click here](https://github.com/asyncapi/java-template)
`@asyncapi/java-spring-template` | Generates Java Spring service | [click here](https://github.com/asyncapi/java-spring-template)
`@asyncapi/java-spring-cloud-stream-template` | Generates Java Spring Cloud Stream service | [click here](https://github.com/asyncapi/java-spring-cloud-stream-template)
`@asyncapi/python-paho-template` | Generates Python service that uses Paho library | [click here](https://github.com/asyncapi/python-paho-template)
`@asyncapi/html-template` | Generates HTML documentation site | [click here](https://github.com/asyncapi/html-template)
`@asyncapi/markdown-template` | Generates documentation in Markdown file | [click here](https://github.com/asyncapi/markdown-template)
`@asyncapi/ts-nats-template` | Generates TypeScript NATS client | [click here](https://github.com/asyncapi/ts-nats-template/)
`@asyncapi/go-watermill-template` | Generates Go client using Watermill | [click here](https://github.com/asyncapi/go-watermill-template)

> `@asyncapi/dotnet-nats-template` | Generates .NET C# client using NATS | [click here](https://github.com/asyncapi/dotnet-nats-template)

Reviewer: @pratik2315, for accessibility you should never use anchor text that doesn't describe where the user will go with a URL. 

Examples to avoid:
- learn more
- read here
- click here

Please go ahead and practice making this accessible by removing all anchor text references of `click here` and replace them with anchor text that describes to the user where that link will take them. ✌🏽

<!-- TEMPLATES-LIST:END -->

> > Some of these templates are maintained by various third party organizations. The readme file usually contains this information along with additional stuff such as–configuration options that user can pass to template, usage, technical requirements, and usage etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Some of these templates are maintained by various third-party organizations. The readME file usually contains this information and more, such as configuration options that the user can pass to the template, usage, technical requirements, etc.
```

> You can find above templates and the ones provided by the community in **[this list](https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Aasyncapi+topic%3Agenerator+topic%3Atemplate)**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check out [all our templates and those provided by the community](https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Aasyncapi+topic%3Agenerator+topic%3Atemplate)**
```

weight: 40
---

## Template

A template is a project that specifies the generation process output by using the AsyncAPI generator and an [AsyncAPI document](asyncapi-file.md). These files describe the generation results depending on the AsyncAPI document's content.

Some examples outputs are:

- Code
- Documentation
- Markdown diagrams
- Python and Java applications

> A template is an independent NodeJS project unrelated to the `generator` repository. AsyncAPI templates are managed, released, and published separately. You can also create templates and manage them on your own.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A template is an independent Node.js project unrelated to the `generator` repository. AsyncAPI templates are managed, released, and published separately. You can also create templates and manage templates on your own.
```

> The generator uses the official NPM library for installing NodeJS dependencies called [Arborist](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@npmcli/arborist). (This means templates do not have to be published to package managers to use them.) Arborist helps the generator fetch the template's source code and use it for the generation process. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The generator uses the official NPM library for installing [Arborist](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@npmcli/arborist), a Node.js dependency. (This means templates do not have to be published to package managers to use them.) Arborist helps the generator fetch the template's source code and use it for the generation process. 
```

You can store template projects on a local drive or as a `git` repository during the development process. 

## Template generation process

> 1. Template is provided as a input to the **Generator**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Template is provided as input to the **Generator**.
```

> 2. **asyncapi** is the original AsyncAPI document that is by default injected in your template file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **asyncapi** is the original AsyncAPI document injected into your template file by default.
```

> 3. **params** are the parameters that you pass to the generator CLI. Later on, you can pass these **params** further to other components as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **params** are the parameters you pass to the generator CLI. Later, you can also pass these **params** further to other components. 
```

> 4. The generator passes both the original **asyncapi**, the original AsyncAPI document and the **params** to the **Template Context**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. The generator passes both the original **asyncapi**, the original AsyncAPI document, and the **params** to the **Template Context**.
```

> 5. Concurrently, the generator passes **Template files** to the **Render engine** as well. AsyncAPI uses two render engines—react and nunjucks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Concurrently, the generator passes **Template files** to the **Render engine** as well. AsyncAPI uses two render engines — _react_ and _nunjucks_.
```

> 6. Once the Render Engine receives both the Template Files and the Template Context, it injects all the dynamic values in your react or nunjucks based on the Template Files using the Template Context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Once the Render Engine receives both the Template Files and the Template Context, it injects all the dynamic values into your react or nunjucks engine, based on the Template Files using the Template Context.
```

> 7. Finally, the render engine generates whatever output you may have specified in your template such as—code, documentation, diagrams, pdf, applications etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. The render engine generates whatever output you may have specified in your template. (i.e. code, documentation, diagrams, pdfs, applications, etc.)
```

```mermaid
graph LR
    A[Template Context]
    B{Generator}
    D[Render Engine]
    F[Template] --> B
  subgraph Generator Library
    B --> | asyncapi | A
    B--> | params | A
    A --> D
    B --> | Template Files | D
  end
```

## Generator `templates` list

AsyncAPI has a list of available templates to enhance your generation process. Templates are stored as repositories on AsyncAPI's official GitHub profile.

<!-- templates list is validated with GitHub Actions do not remove list markers -->
<!-- TEMPLATES-LIST:START -->

Template Name | Description | Source code
---|---|---

> `@asyncapi/nodejs-template` | Generates Nodejs service that uses Hermes package | [Nodejs template](https://github.com/asyncapi/nodejs-template)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`@asyncapi/nodejs-template` | Generates Node.js service that uses Hermes package | [Nodej.s template](https://github.com/asyncapi/nodejs-template)
```

> `@asyncapi/nodejs-ws-template` | Generates Nodejs service that supports WebSockets protocol only | [Nodejs-websocket template](https://github.com/asyncapi/nodejs-ws-template)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`@asyncapi/nodejs-ws-template` | Generates Node.js service that supports WebSocket protocol only | [Node.js WebSocket template](https://github.com/asyncapi/nodejs-ws-template)
```

`@asyncapi/java-spring-cloud-stream-template` | Generates Java Spring Cloud Stream service | [Java spring cloud stream template](https://github.com/asyncapi/java-spring-cloud-stream-template)
`@asyncapi/python-paho-template` | Generates Python service that uses Paho library | [Python paho template](https://github.com/asyncapi/python-paho-template)
`@asyncapi/html-template` | Generates HTML documentation site | [HTML template](https://github.com/asyncapi/html-template)
`@asyncapi/markdown-template` | Generates documentation in Markdown file | [Markdown template](https://github.com/asyncapi/markdown-template)
`@asyncapi/ts-nats-template` | Generates TypeScript NATS client | [TypeScript/Node.js NATS template](https://github.com/asyncapi/ts-nats-template/)
`@asyncapi/go-watermill-template` | Generates Go client using Watermill | [GO watermill template](https://github.com/asyncapi/go-watermill-template)
`@asyncapi/dotnet-nats-template` | Generates .NET C# client using NATS | [.NET C# NATS template](https://github.com/asyncapi/dotnet-nats-template)

<!-- TEMPLATES-LIST:END -->

> > Some of these templates are maintained by various third-party organizations. The README file usually contains this information and more, such as configuration options that the user can pass to the template, usage, technical requirements, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Some of these templates are maintained by various third-party organizations. The README file usually contains this information and more, such as configuration options the user can pass to the template, usage, technical requirements, etc.
```

> > Check out all of our [templates and those provided by the community](https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Aasyncapi+topic%3Agenerator+topic%3Atemplate)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Check out all our community [generator templates](https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Aasyncapi+topic%3Agenerator+topic%3Atemplate)
```

weight: 40
---

# What's a Template?

> Template is a project designed to give you some form of output with the help of Generator and [AsyncAPI file](asyncapi-file.md) as an input. It is just a set of files where you describe what you would like the Generator to generate as an output. Some examples of these outputs can be things such as—code, documentation, diagrams, python and java applications, and much more. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A template is a project that specifies what exactly you get as an output of the generation process using AsyncAPI Generator and the [AsyncAPI file](asyncapi-file.md). It is just a set of files where you describe what should be the result of the generation depending on the contents of the AsyncAPI file. Some examples of these outputs can be things such as: code, documentation, diagrams, python and java applications, and much more. 
```

> Template is an independent NodeJS project that’s not related to the Generator repository. AsyncAPI templates are managed, released and published separately. Generator uses the Arborist library. Arborist connects both Template and Generator, It is also the dependency tree manager for npm. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A template is an independent NodeJS project that’s not related to the `generator` repository. AsyncAPI templates are managed, released, and published separately. You can also create your own templates and manage them on your own.

The generator uses the official NPM library for installing NodeJS dependencies called [Arborist](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@npmcli/arborist). This means templates do not have to be published to package managers to use them, just make sure they have `package.json`.
```

> Arborist helps the generator fetch source code or hooks of the template and use that for the generation process. It also means templates are a set of customly designed files which can be stored anywhere like–in npm, on local during the development process, or just as a github repository. You can do anything that is already possible with `npm install`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Arborist helps the generator fetch the source code of the template and use that for the generation process. You can store template projects on a local drive during the development process, or just as a git repository. You can do anything that is already possible with `npm install`.
```

The following section talks about the minimum components your template should have in any given situation:

# Minimum for your template

The most basic template must have the following:

### 1. `template` directory

This is where you keep the files that determine the output that will be generated. In other words, the Generator processes all the files stored in this directory.

```js
import { File, Text } from "@asyncapi/generator-react-sdk";

export default function({ asyncapi, params, originalAsyncAPI }) {
return (
    <File name="asyncapi.md">
    <Text>This is a markdown file for my application.</Text>
    <Text>App name is: **{ asyncapi.info().title() }**</Text>
    </File>
);
}
```

> > Code sample developed is stored under template/index.js folder

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The above example of `template/index.js` file shows as a result of the generation process. A user of such a minimal template will receive `asyncapi.md` file with some hardcoded information and some dynamic information extracted for the AsyncAPI file.

Important to notice is that every template must depend on [`@asyncapi/generator-react-sdk`](https://github.com/asyncapi/generator-react-sdk) package containing a set of basic components to use in template files.
```

### 2. `package.json` file

> This file is necessary even if your template doesn't need any external dependencies. Before the generation process runs, the Generator must install the template into its dependencies, and `package.json` is necessary to identify the template name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before the generation process runs, the Generator must install the template into its dependencies, and `package.json` is necessary to identify the template name and its configuration
```

there is always at least one external dependency -> https://github.com/asyncapi/generator-react-sdk

Following block shows an example `package.json` file and some select dependencies:

```json

> "generator": {
>     "renderer": "react",
>     "parameters": {
>       "server": {
>         "description": "The server you want to use in the code.",
>         "required": true
>       },
> 
> "dependencies": {
>     "@asyncapi/generator-filters": "^2.1.0",
>     "@asyncapi/generator-hooks": "^0.1.0",
>     "@asyncapi/generator-react-sdk": "^0.2.16"
>   },

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{
  "name": "myTemplate",
  "generator": {
    "renderer": "react"
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "@asyncapi/generator-react-sdk": "^0.2.25"
  }
}
```

I would not introduce example with parameters if we did not explain what they were,
same dependencies, lets make it as minimal as needed 

name is not necessary but part of me thinks it is important that in examples we promote good practice of naming template 🤔

```

> Whenever you make a change to package.json make sure you perform an update with `npm install` to synchronize with package-lock.json and validate if the file is not broken after your changes.

> Templates are reusable. Same template can be modified and used for different purposes. [Hooks](hooks.md) allow Templates to perform multiple tasks. Hooks are fractions of code that can be added to your Template. They can be plugged-in onto the generation process to perform multiple actions. For example, we can configure a hook that generates a pdf after the generation process is completed. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Templates are reusable. Same template can be modified and used for different purposes. [Hooks](hooks.md) enable templates to perform multiple tasks. Hooks are fractions of code that can be added to your Template. They can be plugged-in onto the generation process to perform multiple actions. For example, we can configure a hook that generates a pdf after the generation process is completed. 
```

> Templates are reusable. Same template can be modified and used for different purposes.

what do you mean?

btw, hooks should be a separate section or document 🤔 
I'm just thinking if we should not have separate document:
- about template for end user, so they understand what they are, how to use them, that there are properties
- about template for template developer, because concept of `hook` is useful for them only. End user do not have to know what hook is as they work behind the scenes by default, or through parameters, but still users has no idea, and do not need to know what that is
